# DJANGO MODELS

### Defined
A model is the single, definitive source of information about your data. It contains the essential fields and behaviors of the data you’re storing. Generally, each model maps to a single database table.

In other words a place where you make the sql structure


### The basics:

-  Each model is a Python class that subclasses django.db.models.Model.
- Each attribute of the model represents a database field.

With all of this, Django gives you an automatically-generated database-access API; see Making queries.
tldr: allows easy creation and communication

### Quick example
This example model defines a Person, which has a first_name and last_name:

```python
from django.db import models

class Person(models.Model):
    first_name = models.CharField(max_length=30)
    last_name = models.CharField(max_length=30)
```

first_name and last_name are fields of the model. Each field is specified as a class attribute, and each attribute maps to a database column.

The above Person model would create a database table like this:

```SQL
CREATE TABLE myapp_person (
    "id" bigint NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY,
    "first_name" varchar(30) NOT NULL,
    "last_name" varchar(30) NOT NULL
);
```

### How to use the Model created

- Goo to settings file in django project
-  ADD  the name of the module that is in your models.py


> For example, if the models for your application live in the module myapp.models (the package structure that is created for an application by the manage.py startapp script), INSTALLED_APPS should read, in part:

```python
INSTALLED_APPS = [
    # ...
    "myapp",
    # ...
]
```
> When you add new apps to INSTALLED_APPS, be sure to run manage.py migrate, optionally making migrations for them first with manage.py makemigrations.